---
layout: post
title: "Nonviolent Communication needs more than knowledge"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [NVC]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I first came in contact with NCV in 2014 in a seminar which dealt with leadership in general. It touched on the basic principles, the "cooking recipe for good communication"(observation, feeling, need, request). I thought to myself then, "Yeah, this is awesome. I understand how this can help in communicating with others!". So for two years I had it present, but I had never studied it deeply. In April 2016 I went to a seminar about NVC and empathy and started going deeper. I watched a lot of Videos with Marshall Rosenberg afterwards. I noticed how little I had actually understood about Nonviolent Communication. How I was always so prone to judge, myself and others alike. Probably even harsher on myself. Then I read the book Nonviolent Communication by Marshall and it helped me gaining new insights, transforming the way I perceive myself and others. It has already helped me a lot in finding happier alternative paths.

### I still struggle
I am working on improving my empathy skills. And identifying my own needs. Being socialized as a woman I can see now how I was taught not to listen to my own needs and sacrifice instead. Thinking of it scares me, because I would like for all people to be able to listen to their own needs, express them and have them fulfilled. However, I also think that this has been ingrained so deeply in our society that I don't know if we will ever be able to liberate from this. So I worry for the future of humanity and the happiness of our children and children's children ... .
I have a family, who are very fluent Jackal speakers. Especially the family on the side of my boyfriend has not learned to express themselves in a way that makes it easy for me to listen and understand and empathize. I am working on it. Improving my Giraffe ears and trying to teach them some giraffe. It's tough for me, but I am hopeful.

### Partially is not enough
This past weekend I was at another workshop which partly dealt with leadership. A lot of the things presented on leadership seemed to stem from NVC. I think though, that it was not conveyed in the most effective way. I understood it, because I had a lot of prior knowledge. I had the impression though, that many in the room did not understand it due to the way it was presented.
The next morning my impression was confirmed. The workshop leader was trying to work through needs and emotions from different partys affected by tardiness by a participant, with a participant in front of the whole group. The group did not understand what the goal of the workshop leader was. They understood it as putting someone on the spot and shaming them in front of the group or making them feel guilty. They responded with confusion, frustration, fear, anxiety and anger. Some left the workshop. The situation got completly out of hand and there were very violent things exchanged between participants and the workshop leader. The workshop leader was lacking some key empathy skills in the situation, I think. With more empathy this could have been softened a little. I am very sure, that he was not trying to shame or make anyone feel guilty. I can understand very well though, that the group understood it this way, because there was no proper preparation. I was fustrated, because I could see how his presentation was lacking key elements and made it almost impossible to understand what he was getting at. Furthermore I was also sad and stressed because I noticed how unhappy the group was - some even left, and I wanted them to have a more joyful experience and also understand the wonderful thing (NVC), which I could see shining through.

This example showed me, that it is not enough to have understood the "cooking recipe". There is so much more to learn, and especially if you want to teach it, you need to have at least a deeper understanding of it than this workshop leader (or be a natural talent at using it). 