---
layout: post
title: "Striking at the Symptoms of Catastrophe"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [News, Germany, de Maizière]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I believe there are many things going wrong in the world currently. However, it seems to me, that all the politicians ever try to do if anything is react to the symptoms and strik at them. The root of the problem, that causes the symptoms is something differnt, but they do not seem to know or care.

Yesterday I was in the car driving the whole day. During my ride I listened to the radio and there were two news which alarmed me and made me shake my head at the same time.

The news were about the defense plan for the civic population and face recognition for all surveillance cameras.
I believe Thomas de Maiziere, who is Secretary of the Interior in Germany, is connected to both news. He was quoted having said about the face recognition: "Wir müssen technisch in der Lage sein, das zu tun, was rechtlich erlaubt ist." (We need to be technically able to do what is allowed by law.) He said it was necessary "to fight terrorism". 

Recognizing faces on videos is fairly easy for software. Recognizing facial characteristics and comparing them to faces found in a database and matching them, is more complex, but feasible. Due to Shadows on faces and different orientations of the face on the video, software is often inaccurate. I am very sure, this face recognition software, would it be used widely on surveillance cameras, would not contribute much - if at all - to preventing terroristic acts. The people blowing themselves up are often unknown to the police or intelligence agencies. No technology and means to spy on people will ever be able to prevent terrorism. Spying on everyone increases the available data, but that does not help in finding the needle in the hay stack.

Let’s create a dystopia:  

> My state has data about the facial characteristics of all its citizens. Surveillance cameras can recognize the face of every citizen walking past it. Using the cameras, available almost everywhere - except maybe in restrooms - every citizen can be tracked, their movements analyzed and their acquaintances recorded. Their posture can be read for their emotional state and their behavior towards others will allow for assumptions about their character.  
> To ensure the functioning of the tracking, it is forbidden to wear hats or other face-distorting or covering accessories or clothing or hairstyles. Anyone wearing such clothing or accessories or hairstyle is suspicious and will be arrested for investigation, to ensure the public safety. If on a camera image a face appears that cannot be identified, that person is a suspect. Either they are guilty of hindering face recognition, or they are not properly registered, probably a foreigner, probably a criminal and a terrorist. Armed forces will be sent for the arrest of the suspect. If the person does not comply willingly and submissively with the forces, or there is reason to fear for the safety of the forces or other citizens, the armed forces are instructed to shoot. Public safety after all is the highest good we possess and it must be protected at all cost.  
> It is known who knows whom and who talks to whom when. Nonetheless, there have been acts of terrorism, brutal crimes and murders, but there were far more people killed by the armed forces. Guess what I am scared of.

I do not want this surveillance, because I am scared of what could be done with it. Always in the name of being in service to the people but in reality serving only some few elites, controlling and managing the population. This is not what the people, humanity or the planet needs.


The other news were about the civic defense plan. The last one for Germany was made more than 20 years ago, during the time of the cold war in 1989. Other politicians have criticized the civic defense plan, because they believe it is frightening the public and they think it is unnecessary, because there is no threat.
I am not frightened about this plan that instructs the population to keep food for 10 days and two liters of water per person per day for 5 days. I have watched the recent events in the world. I think it should be obvious to everyone that whatever prosperity we have at the cost of others it is now more in danger than it has been since the cold war has ended. This wave of terrorism we are currently experiencing is most likely just the beginning. I do hope we do not see a new war. And I hope no atomic weapons will be used. The next war will probably be waged by drones rather than soldiers. It is nice to know that less soldiers will die. After all they are people, too. However, that does not mean less people will die. The US are already waging a drone war in the middle east and countless people have died. Many of them probably innocent, although that is irrelevant, because the definition is solely depentent on the perspective. The next war will probably be won by the country who builds the best and most drones.
I was scared before and am still scared for all the people who will die and the rest in pain who survive. And I am sad about the suffering and pain that will increase in the future and is already very large. People are suffering and even though they may have a different religion, skin color or something else that might seem to set them apart, they are people. There is more that unites us than divides us. They feel pain like we do; devastation and helplessness over the death of their child; frustration and anger about the death of their parent. I am scared that the continuation of the exploitation of the enviornment and the planet will cause a lot of damage and cost many lives of humans and other species.
I hope we can bring down these politics in the world that cause so much suffering. I wish it will happen before the suffering on the planet increases a lot more and before our planet suffers irreversible damage. 

Both, the defense plan and the face recognition strike at the symptoms of the beginning catastrophe. The catastrophe will not be prevented this way. I even doubt it will be slowed. In other words, these proposals are both nonsense and amount to nothing. If anything they are supposed to create the appearance that the politicians are doing something against this terrible situation. In fact, they are doing nothing against it, which is essentially helping it. Terrorism is committed by people who are in so much pain, they see no other way. To help the situation we must stop creating new people who are in so much pain, because their parents or siblings or other loved ones died. Stop the ongoing drone war and shut down Ramstein. Make peace instead of war, help and cooperate instead of compete against and ruin economically. On a global world there is no trade. There is only consumption and investment. To achieve the best for everyone, we need to help each other. There will always be conflicts in this world, but we need to find different ways to solve them than suppressing or killing each other.
